# MODULE 0x000 LECTURE 0x020 - Pentesting: What is it Really?

## Class Ethics Agreement

Agree to it. Don't pentest without explicit permission from authorized persons.


## What is a pentest?

Security of a system can be characterized by three properties (CIA Triad):
1. Confidentiality
2. Integrity
3. Availability

Penetration test: An activity in which the security of a program, system, or network is evaluated by attempting to exploit a vulnerability to defeat the CIA triad properties.

Security audit: An attempt to determine if a program, system, or network is vulnerable without specifically attempting to defeat any protective measures and exploiting a vulnerability

**The difference between pentests and audits are the exploitation of vulnerabilities.**


## PHRASE PART 2 (for leeway credit key?):

```
Phrase part 1

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
```


## Scoping

* Arguably one of the most important and often overlooked components of a pentest.
    - Very little on the topic of how to prepare for a test
* Estimate effort based on your experience and the required tests
* Dallas county coalfire debacle makes it clear that scoping is critical
    - [Read here](https://www.desmoinesregister.com/story/news/crime-and-courts/2021/08/01/arrested-coalfire-security-testers-2019-file-dallas-county-iowa-courthouse-lawsuit/5431611001/)

Know:
- Why does the customer wants a pentest?
- When does the customer want the active portion of the pen test to be conducted?
- How many internal/external IPs are being affected?
- Are there any devices in place that may impact the results of a pentest such as IDS, firewall, webapp firewall, load balancer?

If the system is penetrated, should we:
- Perform a local vuln assessment on the compromised machine?
- Attempt to gain the highest privilege (root/Administrator/SYSTEM)?
- Perform no, minimal, dictionary, or exhaustive attacks against local password hashes? (e.g. `/etc/shadow`)

Also know:
- How many web apps are being assessed?
- How many login systems are being assessed?
- How many static pages are being assessed?
- How many dynamic pages are being assessed?
- Will the source code be readily available for viewing?
- Will there be any kind of documentation?
- Will we perform static analysis?
- Does the client want fuzzing?
- Black box/grey box/ white box test?


For wireless network tests:
- How many wireless networks are in place?
- Is a guest wireless network used? If so, does it require authentication?
- What type of encryption?
- What is the square footage?
- Will we be enumerating rogue devices?
- Will we be assessing wireless attacks against clients?
- Approximately how many clients will be on the network?

Social engineering:
- Are personnell emails provided?
- Will be be provided phone numbers?
- Will we be attempting to social engineer physical access, and if so, how many people targeted?
